/*
requirement
    - every morphology data dictionary can give a result as long as these are specified:
        tense_mood_voice
        person_number
        conjugation
    - additional information can be specified but is not necessary  
        - e.g. gradeschool || cuny is an argument
        (
        default: ris
        gradeschool: ris
        cuny: ris/re)

design of the dictionary traverser function
    - arguments are strings
    - returns a single string
    - the traverser will be iterated over to produce lists of strings when fort instance we want to produce all possible endings
    - order of arguments is unimportant
    - function runs a preliminary test on the minimum arguments and alerts if they fail
    - function runs a test on whether 

some needed maps for the pre-tests (upstream from traverser)
    basic pointing: which dictionary do we look up
        latin:
            middle: latin_verb_morphology_middle

    bad data catcher: what minimum arguments are required?
        latin_verb_morphology_middle: tense_mood_voice, conjugation
    
    log in a development-log all supplementary data 
        i.e. non matches to 
            1s, 2s, 3s, 1p, 2p, 3p
            conjugation 1, etc.
            present indicative active
        and misspellings
            prefect indicative active
    
    log in a development-log all duplicates
        (designed to catch sneaky bugs in the bundler)
    
    
    


*/

/*

UPSTREAM 1 bad data checker

UPSTREAM 2 optional: choose dictionary to traverse



send that to argument
[NAME OF DICTIONARY TO TRANSVERSE, imperfect indicative active', 'conjugation 1', '3s']



'latin verb morphology middle', 


['latin verb middle', imperfect indicative active', 'conjugation 1', '3s']


*/









//example argument:
// type 1 return single form
// argument: ['latin, 'verb middle', imperfect indicative active', 'conjugation 1', '3s']
//return: aba
//

// type 2 return a list of forms
// argument: ['latin middle', 
/*
[
latin,
middle,
[present_indicative_active, imperfect_indicative_active, future_indicative active],
[3s, 3p]
[conjugation 1, conjugation 2]
]
*/
// return: [a, aba, abi, e, eba, ebi]


/* the infinitely specifiable virtue of the utopian dictionary traverser
any arbitrary argument can be passed in as specified by module

e.g. ['latin middle', perfect indicative active', 'conjugation 1', ['3s', '3p'], 'lgi: unit 18']


at least 3 types of comparison
    - straight match
    - default 
    - special
        e.g. we have a map called special_arguments_in_dictionary_traverser
            {
                'lgi_unit': 'greater than or equal to'
            }

handling default
    skip on first pass
    pick if nothing else triggered








*/




PARAMETERS IN MODULE
- drop down path    
    - usually lexeme, verb_beginning, verb_middle, verb_ending
- scramble morphological elements (bool)
    - i.e. does it look like a aba abi e e eba ebi ea
      or is it scrambled e i ie abi a aba




FUNCTIONS THAT CONVERT ALLOWED LEVELS TO LATIN TENSE-MOOD COMBOS

- input: lexemes allowed
- output: list of conjugations

- input: kck_levels
- output: tenses and moodes


QUESTION TYPE: English to Latin translation
he walks and he sees

what is the translation of "he sees"?

correct answer:

videt






QUESTION TYPES
-the main question type will be english-to-latin    
    - we produce a kck sentence in english 
        (he will walk / if he walks, he will see / he walks and he sees)
    - we pick a part to test 
        - we will only pick one verb to ask about
        - unlike usual kck mode we won't ask about more than one verb or about a conjunction
    - 
- another question type will be: transformation mode (change X to Y)
    - change AM-ABA-T (he loved) to passive (he was loved)
    - or change AMAV-ISSE-T to imperfect subjunctive 
    - this is widely considered to be one of the best ways of training students in the verb
    - on the one hand: it might be best to make this a different mode
    - on the other hand: this is really just a superset that contains the first question type
        - i.e. it's just the first question type with only the last element displayed (he was loved)
        - so it might make sense to just have a single mode with a parameter    
            of whether we want to display the transformation part


CHANGES IN GAME MODE
- game mode is almost exactly like kck mode
- terminal click should serve as submit





INFRASTRUCTURE FUNCTIONS
- component gives beginning,middle, end 
    kernel and component need to be checked to see if they can produce 
    an easy dictionary of beginning, middle, end
    for us to compare with the answer given








LITTLE THINGS
- default order of morphological elements
    - the dictionaries themselves may not give us a default order 
        e.g. 1s 2s 3s
        present imperfect future
    so we may need to specify those somewhere if we haven't already done so

PLANNING TO DO
- step: decide on path names for verb morphotalk
        morpho_drop_down_path: ['morpho_lexeme', 'verb_beginning', 'verb_middle', 'verb_ending']
- decide game mode name : morphology


AGENDA
- build morphology mode game (on the model of KCK mode)
- 


WAY TO GENERATE SENTENCE FOR MORPHOLOGY MODE

generate_sentence('english', 'latin', 10, 10, ['c_null', 'c_null_potential_subjunctive'])

STEPS

we start at the module
the module says two things

hey I want the path to be lexeme beginning middle end

- step #1: get all level-specific info from module
- minimum content
    - path name (lexeme, morphology-beginning, morphology-middle, morphology-ending)
    - kck level
    - in morphology mode what are the display characteristics (remove dashes at end, lower case)

the module (and all the levels it might point to) tell us
hey! I want you to grab morphological material from these domains:
(aka the maximal space)
e.g.
    from kck_level:
        3s and 3p
        active and passive
        past present and future
        conjugations 1 and 2




- step #2: obtain this from kck level


    - some data is simple and easy to collect
        person_number
        voice
        
    - some data is accessible easily but indirectly
        consult allowed_lexemes and return some value like a list of all_used_conjugations
        
    - other data requires a more sophisticated collection method
        namely tense_mood_combos
            the problem is, we don't want to willy nilly grab every tense_mood
            e.g. the students may not know any periphrastic uses
            
            the goal is a packaging of tense_mood_voice combos
            
            we have indicative tense & voice available from kck_levels
                
            
            what we don't have is any info on subjunctives
            
            that's the problem
            
            
            solution 1:
                - use our already sophisticated machinery
                - use it to produce a list of 
                    [present_indicative_active, present_indicative_passive, perfect_indicative_active]
                    
            
            
            solution 2:
                - be more direct
                - specify directly instead of trying to control all the codependencies
                - we want tense_mood_voice combos
                - so justlist the tense_mood_voice combos that we want 
                - in module crow we just specify
                    [present_indicative_active, present_indicative_passive, perfect_indicative_active]
                    
                    
                
            
            e.g. if we want only indicatives we pick null
            if we want only subjunctives of simul time we could pick ut_purpose
            it we want all subjunctives we could pick why_indirect_question
            
            
            
            

    - step #2a: obtain allowed persons and numbers
    - step #2b: obtain allowed voices
    - step #2c: obtain allowed tense-mood combinations
        - step #2ci: put conjunction override in morphology_levels.js (done)
        - step #2cii: use prune_tf_space with conjunction override from morphology_levels.js
    - step #2d: obtain allowed conjugations
        - step #2di: obtain allowed verbs
        - step #2dii: obtain conjugations of allowed verbs

we have a full-fledged data library of morphological elements in our inflect function
so we know what we want to choose and where to get it.But how do we get these parameters?
i.e. 3s and 3p active and passive
We don’t want to have to manually specify it in the module itself because we might make a mistake. we might accidentally limit to 1st and 2nd conjugations but we actually have a 3rd conjugation verb in our allowed lexemes.
But all this info is recoverable from kck_levels.
so it seems best to go there
we pull all allowed parameters there and we send this to a dictionary traverse
the dictionary traverser crawls through our library of endings
and picks the ones that match




step #2.5: bundling??

bundle all this data into appropriate codependencies (tense-mood-voice)
    tense-mood-voice (hard-coded)
    person-numbers (from allowed)
    conjugation (from allowed lexemes)


- step #3: dictionary traverser
    - step #3i: traverse middles (present and perfect systems)
    - step #3ii: traverse endings (present and perfect systems)
        - note: how o/m works in endings is confusing. There is no o/m option,
          only two o and m options that are chosen between.
        - this clearly makes ending traversal more complex (but not much)
        - all we have to do is pull both (which will also work for -or/r)
         

- step #3.5: get verb beginnings

we either scramble them or keep them in their natural order

step #4: get scrambling parameter, scramble
    step #4i: get scrambling parameter
    step #4ii: scramble

compare path
give red and green


step #5:
    - step #5i: get correct answer
    - step #5ii: compare
        - remember: for dashes, consider both posiibilities
    - step #5iii: red and green

and that's it!!!!











COPY OF CHAT

Hi!
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
hey dan
can you see this chat?
Yes.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
great. I had a lookat thegame real quick. Very cool!
is the change  in rule that you can't capture via suicide?
I'm glad you found it interesting.
I know you don't have a lot of time, so should we get started?
From what I've seen so far, it seems like something strange happened that I don't know about.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
you mean with the game
?
With our game, sorry for the context shift.
It's confusing to have two types of game being talked about at once,
especially when they have so little in common.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
ok why don't we wrap up the discussion of the go variant first. 
OK.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
Is the variation what I said?
So, have you figured out the rules yet?
Yes, you can't capture via suicide.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
no capture via suicide?
There's another change.
You see it when you play a whole game.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
does white make random moves?
Yes.
Random allowed moves
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I played through a quick game and finished but I didn't notice any other change
Although it might just look like the computer is being stubborn about resigning,
It really only stops playing when it has no legal move
which means it loses.
So there's no territory or prisoners counting.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
oh yeah I did notice that. I guess that is a variant
well that is very cool! Impressive. 
There are several implications of these changes in the rules, like that it's very hard to kill a stone and very easy to invade, but it seems like we should start talking about the much more complicated other game we have on our hands.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes lets
So do you want to call me, or should I call you?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I'm using this new fangled device that I just bought to have internet in my house. 
It's possible we will be able to make it work for our chat functionality
but it's also possible that it won't have enough bandwidth
So should we just use the text communication?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
and we will have to use our phones for the audio communication
That seems fine with me.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
let's send a few more texts back and forth and then we'll try a call
OK. So let's start with talking about agenda. (You can call me at any time you want to.)
So far, I've just played a little.
I also created a debug_log function
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I don't have much to report on feedback from the game from players
Which only logs when we are not in production
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
all we had time to do was set up accounts
ok that's very useful
since I noticed that we cshouldn't be logging the correct answer
when the students are playing.
I see you added some greek gods.
and removed some options on the login page
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes i've added greek gods and added a proper noun interceptor and changed the login
the proper noun interceptor prevents proper nouns
 frombeing plural or having the
in front of them
I was going to ask 'what does interceptor mean?'
but instead I'll note that we still seem to have an empty plural option in dropdowns.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
just intercepts them upstreamand changes the behavior
I know now, but I was thinking it was a latin word that was somehow a proper noun.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah that's something I wanted to ask if you knew how to fix easily. I can't quite track down in the control flow where we remove such things from the drop down
I'm not sure either.
But it should be on the agenda to find out.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
for now it's merely a cosmetic issue so it's not a super high priority
OK.
So what are our highest-priority issues right now?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
but I did do some testing with a more advanced student on the kck mode and it works smoothly and it's challenging. More lexemes will make it even better. So overall we're good and we should get player feedback next week
here's my sense of our current situation
OK. So do we want to add lexemes?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
no adding lexemes is an easy chore I can do
no need for us to do it together
I'll give you my sense of the situation then we'll start a call to discuss
as I see it the crossroads we are at is
our major new task is to add nouns to vcv mode
while at the same time making vcv mode less hacky and more modular andmore data driven with a cleaner overall architecture
that's the most important step
but it's also something with a lot of careful design that needs to go into it
and we don't want to rush it
I agree.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so one thing we want to do is buy ourselves a little time
and stall the kids on something to give us plenty of time to work on this
to me there are two relatively simple interventions we can make that would stall them immensely
but that would be fairly simple for us to implement
because we have the architecture already set up
but do you get what I mean? does that all make sense and sound reasonable?
Yes. What are the two interventions?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
intervention 1:
make a tweak in vcv mode where the drop down path is not metacategories like tense, sequence, person etc
but rather the actual morphological elements like
a, aba, abi, 
s, t, mus
am , amav, amat
Yes, that doesn't seem especially hard
although we would have to make it only apply in latin-to-english
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes English to Latin only. and yes the appeal is that it seems easy to implement but it adds huge pedagogical value and will take them a logng time to master
and make our dropdowns differently
i.e., with respect to the morphology
instead of the voice, sequence, time etc. directly.
But that seems like something we should be able to do anyway.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes it seems the drop down path should just be BEGINNING MIDDLE END
Plus an initial choice between lexemes.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
and the things that populate it are just a library of all the possible morphological elements that can go into that slot
the initial choice of lexeme would lead to the BEGINNING drop down, where they would pick between the principal parts AM, AMAV, AMAT
I think I understand.
I see how this is a good thing to do pedagogically.
So what is the other thing?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
that step seems the most tractable and seems like we can cover today. The second step is a little more difficult perhaps but we have the architecture for it set up. 
intervention 2:
adjust the drop down funcitonality that we currently use in kck mode 
to accept the taxonomical data
Yes, that seems like a good idea.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
a little more design needs to go into this before we can dive right in
I think we once tried to do that and it was rather easy.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
but it seems tractable
and the pedagogical value is huge
since right now they learn about 3 animals in class per week
that doesn't give them much practice.if we add taxonomy they can practice tens of animals per hour
I see. It does seem like this would really help them learn taxonomy.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so what do you think? does that sound like a good agenda?give them some challenges so we can design nouns in kck mode at leisure and not be forced to hack our way through the mindfield?
It actually seems to me that this text chat is rather good.
Yes this seems like a good agenda.
I'm not sure we need a call.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
(yeah text somehow can be more efficient for certain discussions. Let's only go to a call if we need to)
so does intervention #1 seem like the best thing to start with?
Yes, let's start with intervention #1,
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
let's talk about some of the prereqs before we dive in
What do you think the first step is for that?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I think we need to talk about the overall architecture
maybe we should start with the requisite info in module
what info does module need to send to the game?
drop down path
range of options to populate
I'm not sure there's a drop down path in intervention #1.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
(i.e. we don't want to give them o/m s t mustisnt and or, ris tur mur mini ntur if they haven't learned options)
you mean no drop down path because it'salways beginning middle ending?
Yes, that's what I was thinking.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah I think that's generally true
it seems unlikely but maybe there would come a day where we only want them to see ENDING or to give them only MIDDLE andENDING
Yes that makes sense.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
seems unlikely but maybe worth making it controllable since it's fairly easy and it mimics the drop down architecture in kck mode
Yes that seems like a good idea.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
did that make sense what I said about allowable options
?
We also might want variation sometimes, like beginning, end, middle.
Allowable options make sense.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
both path and options seem something we would want to parameterize in the module
We should probably try to figure out what the various parameters are.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
those are the only two I can think of that would be set by module
can you think of any more?
Those are the only ones I can think of.
I meant the subparameters for range of options to populate.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
let's talk libraries of data.
seems like we can either autogenerate the morphological elements
or store them as data
the data library apprach would be:
here are all the things that can go into a middle element
a
aba
abi
e
eba
ebi
etc.
the allowed_morphological_options parameter in module would tell us which ones to grab
It seems to me that there has to be some kind of connection to the actual meanings.
Actually, I'm not sure there does.
It depends on whether we want things like -t showing up as perfect endings.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes well lets talk now or at some point how we check for right answer
One way would be to store the elements with metacharacters
but actually we have to avoid being naive here
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
whats the issue with the perfect -t ending?
we would call that -it right?
I mean, the question is whether we want present endings showing up in the perfect.
If not, we can't just put very ending as an option everywhere
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
let me check if I understand you properly: if -it shows up alongside -t it might be confusing?
Yes, that's what I was wondering.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I dont think it would be too confusing once they got used to it. After a day or so it would actually reinforce the pedagogical point that -t and -it are distinct morphological elements
Ok, that makes sense.
So creating drop downs should be rather easy.
We just generate all possible combinations at every layer.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes I think we generate everything possible at that level of allowed
so the middle element would literally look like this at a high level of allowed
a
aba
abi
e
eba
ebi
e
ie
ia
era
eri
isse
NOTHING
that's not a big drop down
and that's at nearly the highest level 
ending at highest level of allowed would be
o
m
s
t
mus
tis
nt
or
r
ris
tur
mur
mini
ntur
i
isti
it
imus
istis
erunt
it seems easy enough just to store those as data 
i.e. store the whole maximal set as daya
the trick is we don't want to show them everything if they're at a lower level
Yes, that seems like a good idea.
Now the question is what we want the answer choices to look like.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so yes we now have two questions:
Do we want them to be dashed, or undashed, or to be able to control the behavior'
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
what are the answer choices looking like and what is the correct answer that we compare it to look like
let's put aside dashes for one second because that's more complicated
but if we had a basic low level dashed correct answer
AM-ABA-T
it seems like we should be able to just match three things
three distinct things
and turn each  one red or green accordingly
Yes that seems possible.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
removing dashes is a little more tricky but I think I have some ideas how to implement it down the road
short version is basically: 
The other issue is that we have to know things like what the correct answer uses o and when it uses m.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
(yes good point, we could use o/m and have the choice between them be part of remove dashes mode)
it seems simplest to dealwith dashremoval like this:
they answer AM-ABI-NT
they get
yay correct you got it right
now pick which is the final version
AMABINT (no change)
AMABANT
AMABENT
AMABONT
AMABUNT
or something silly like that
the non-silly version would be
yay correct you got it right
now pick the final form
AMABINT (no change)
AMABUNT
OK. That makes sense.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
same goeswith macrons
same goes with o/m
yay you got it correct
the answer is AMAV-ERI-O/M
now is the final answer
AMAVERO
or AMAVERIM
?
something like that
seems simple enough to just push that downstream
So we'd have an ending o/m, as opposed to o and m being two separate endings?
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes I think that's best
not because it's true
but it's how it's taught at the institute
and how i teach it in class
o/m is really just one thing that switches according to rules
If it fits in pedagogically, it's probably a good idea to do it.
Since it also seems simpler in other ways.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
if we are going to be comparing two sets of BEGINNING MIDDLE END we should make sure that the component is sending us the right info
is that something we should be getting just from the string?
or from the component itself?
The component can send beginning middle end.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
like acomponent property beginning: ABA
oh it can? that's good
(Or at least it can easily be made to.)
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah i think it seems more modular if the component stores it and we compare to that
The hacky way is to conjugate the verb and split on -.
But just using the sub-functions
that get the beginning, middle, and end
seems more modular and just as easy.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah that sounds true
The only issue is that they'll come with metacharacters.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
well we can just strip those off no?
Yes, we can
and indeed down the road the meta characters will probably be helpful
so we probably only want to strip them off
right when we do the comparison
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah that sounds right
ok so want to add anything before we sum things up?
The only other issue I can think of is how to handle nouns in this mode.
and also how to handle the parameter for allowable stems
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
hmmm...
i wasn't thinking of doing nouns yet
Oh, and I though of the third issue of participles
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
just verbs
because we don't have nouns in kck mode
and I think it's best to run this using the kck engine
Yes, that's right. We won't need to worry about nouns.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
thought just start with verbs
So what about the allowable stem parameter.
It can't just be a list of the allowed items for that position,
since it has to communicate with the verb.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeahthat's a good point
each verb lexeme  in testing kernel library has root_2 root_3 root_4
seems like the first step in the path
is choose lexeme
then we hit BEGINNING
and then we have all allowed roots
So we can probable just handle beginning
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
1,2, or 3
by instead of displaying
stem_1
stem_2
stem_3
displaying
AM
AMAV
AMAT
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah exactly
so their traversal of the drop down would look like this
lexeme:
amare
videre
timere
then they see 
AM / AMAV / AMAT
they pick am
then they see
a aba abi e eba ea i
(scrambled up)
then they see the endings (possibly scrambled too)
The only other issue I can see is participles
(and in the future, infinitives)
When we have something like amatus est
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
participles and infinitives and imperatives don't have endings in the same way
But participles still do have endings
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so yeah that's a good point. They don't have endings from the same morphological universe as the other verbs
I usually teach a participle as:
beginning = pp4
middle = 
nothing (perfect)
ns/nt (present)
ur (future)
and so on
and the ending is us, a, um with est
but I think to properly handle these compound verb forms we'll need something like 
beginning
middle
ending
helping verb
helping verb has a lot of possibilities
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
and then ending needs to toggle appropriately between the verb ending universe and the noun ending universe
it might be hard to have them all on one dropdown
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes that's true
The issue is that if participles are showing up with other verbs as options, then we need
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
the kids don't actually use such advanced constructions yet
both the noun and the verb endings as options (this is an additional issue).
So one thing we could try to do is put participles off.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so we should build it in to the design but we're not going to be showing it to the kids for at least another year, when they'll start learnign those forms
So we could just act like participles don't exist.
Of course then we have to make sure KCK modes
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
Yes I agree. I think we should build in the architecture for them, but not commit to implementing them
does not produce sentences where they are correct.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes thats true.I wonder if there's an easy way to detect such forms upstream and just not produce them..
They occur in lots of different situations, though
although you can tell whether they'll occur with just tense and voice
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I think we should try building in as much leeway for them as possible
but exclude them upstream
for now
along the way we might discover an elegant option for how to handle the issue
For now we should probably have some participles-off switch
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
(the issue seems to be mainly that the drop downs are getting overpopulated if we have participle endings and helping verbs)
and if it is turned on participles are not produced
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes that's a good idea actually
It might also be helpful to avoid participles accidentally showing up
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
even in kck mode it's a good idea because the kids can't quite handle them yet when they're not in indirect question
which they would probably do sometimes before the kids learned about them
Yes I agree that it seems like a good idea even in KCK mode
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yes great. good thoughts
ok before summing up, any other thoughts?
No. I think we can start to implement now.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
ok let me try to summarize things.
Listen to this and at the end, add things you think are missing or wrong
we start at the module
the module says two things

hey I want the path to be lexeme beginning middle end
and I want you to grab morphological material from these domains:

3s and 3p
active and passive
past present and future
conjugations 1 and 2
we have a full-fledged data library of morphological elements in our inflect function
so we know what we want to choose and where to get it.But how do we get these parameters?
i.e. 3s and 3p active and passive
We don’t want to have to manually specify it in the module itself because we might make a mistake. we might accidentally limit to 1st and 2nd conjugations but we actually have a 3rd conjugation verb in our allowed lexemes.
But all this info is recoverable from kck_levels.
so it seems best to go there
we pull all allowed parameters there andwe send this to a dictionary traverse
the dictionary traverser crawls through our library of endings
and picks the ones that match
we either scramble them or keep them in their natural order
compare path
give red and green
and that's it
let me use the bathroom real quick and I'll be right back
OK.
I agree with all of this.
I think it's relatively hard to get tense-mood-combinations from KCK levels, but I think we have some function that does it that we can use.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
ok. hard because kck levels don't tell us latin-specific-information about tenses, only time?
Yes, that's what I was thinking.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
and universal indicative tenses?
ok well one thing that's just of pedagogical usefulness
is this:
hold on one second
I think it's still possible, though.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I'm looking at kck > inflect_latin > inflect_latin_refactor_verb_code
it seems to me like the difficulty of translating kck levels to allowed morphological elements is only an issue in the middle element right?
Well, it has an impact on other elements.
For example, to know whether to allow perfect endings
you need to know whether perfect tense is allowed.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah that's true but overall the middle is more difficult than the end
by a huge degree
Yes, that's true.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
so do you have inflect_latin_refactor_verb_code open in front of you?
yes, I do
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
I'mjust looking at it now to see just how hairy the situation is
it isn't the place where the hairiness shows up
the hairiness shows up when getting all the possibilities
which happens in
kck/inflect/inflect_language_independent/prune_tf_space.js
and in
/kck/drop_down/drop_down_options.js
in inflect_latin_refactor_verb_code we just get one possible outcome
(actually, we just deal with one possible outcome)
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
yeah prune_tf_space is hairy
but whatever happens there
cant we just traverse the inflection data and pick things
we could just try every possiblility
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
like so we're traversing the middle inflections variable
we hit conjugation 1
we check if there are conj 1 lexemes
if true
we go down a step
we check present indicative
is it in the allowed universal indicative tense
if so we addit
we move to the next one
but how do we check perfect indicative
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
when we hit present subjunctive we have to get more sophisticated
I meant something like present subjunctive
(I see that indicatives would generally be in the universal allowed indicative tense.)
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
maybe we can check allowed_conjunctions and see whether they take subjunctives
if so we check what sequences are allowed
i.e. it seems like without going into a complicated space-prunign mode we could write a function that just returns a bool
is a subjunctive ever going to occur?
if so what sequences?
and then we see only secondary sequence is allowed and miss flv present subjunctive.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
ok i think i see the edge case here
let me see
we have a module where only secondary sequence is allowed
and we also have conditionals
then we lose data
well i don't know
maybe there's some solution
maybe if any conditionals occur at all, we add primary and secondary sequence
It seems like prune_tf_space is a rather good solution.
We iterate over regimes.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
oh really? is prune-tf-space workable?
For each regime we feed it into prune_tf_space
we get out a list of tense-voice combinations
we remove any periphrastic that showed up, lop the voices off, and there we are.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
cool. that sounds good
just a little time check here.
I have a meeting I have to leave for
in 15 minutes
we've got a lot done so far in terms of design
shall we try to identify the new functions that need to be written?
or what do you think is best to do now?
I'm not sure. I think we should be modular and put everything new into some new folder. Then we can start sketching out the function structure.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
i've made a morphology folder
i'm not sure there's any unique data that can't be found in latin_inflect_refactor_verb_code
I'mgonna start a notes file
Right. I'm actually not sure whether we'll need to do almost everything in KCK files that already exist.
But having a notes file in its own place seems wise.
Akiva saunders (cashmonides@gmail.com)
we will need to create a new game mode. I'll do that when I'm back from my meeting, which should be at 6
why don't we each add some notes to the notes file and divvy up the work
