Not having read M&F in a while, and having lowered my Latin through
not studying, I sometimes am unable to answer an MF mode question.
Here are reasons and potential fixes:

---------------

Cum poētā ē portīs in viam ambulō
attempt: with the poet I walk in the road from the gates
issue: from vs. out of
comments: This is a synonym issue. As with any synonym issue,
there are three solutions:
The do-nothing approach:
1: leave as is, because the words under consideration aren't actually synonyms,
i.e., may answer wasn't actually correct.
The obvious approach:
2: replace everywhere (here this sentence is the only occurance of
from|out-of confusion, but in the future or other occasions there might be more)
The automatic (but still manual) approach:
3: replace built in. i.e, way to replace text before processing.
general cons:
has to be written in a way that won't mess with model or displayed
this type of thing is notorious for letting you shoot yourself in the foot
  3a: from and out-of both map to {from|out-of}
  (i.e, replace both elements of synonym)
     con: requires replacement of all current from|out-of
     con: slightly more likely to backfire, i.e., we want fromage -> cheese too
     and get in a mess with conflicting replacement
  3b: FOF maps to {from|out-of} (i.e., create new abbreviation)
     con: requires same change as before and makes things less readable
  3c: something more sophisticated
     con: hard to implement

----------------

Viās turbā implēbunt. (note inconsistancy about using period)
attempt: we will fill the roads with a crowd
issue: they vs we!!! Exactly the type of thing we want to catch!!!
comments: My first though was that I should use "by means of" instead of "with".
Would that have been acceptable? I don't think it's allowed right now.
Another synonym issue?

----------------

Īnsulam esse patriam habēbat.
attempt: he considers the island to be his homeland
issue: considers vs. was considering!!! Good!!! (in the future, just +)
comments: I tried "native land" and it was not allowed.
Same type of issue as above. I'll call this "p not q," where
p and q are the relevant phrases (p correct, q not).

Issues like this are synonym issues. It indeed seems that most 
issues are like this.

----------------

Taedās in viā vidēre timēbō.
attempt: i will fear the torches in the road
issue: 2 issues
1: "to see" missing +
2: "be afraid" not "fear"
comnments: I was allowed to proceed after fixing issue 1 alone (75%)

----------------

Fēminās in viīs vidēbātis, sed dē fōrmā nōn clāmābātis. Poenās dabitis.
attempt: you were seeing the women in the road, but you were not
screaming about their beauty. You will pay the penalty.
issues:
"roads" vs. "road" +
"shouting" not "screaming"??? (this could very well be OK)
comments: "beauty" not "appearance"
