The cow jumped over the moon.
The dish ran away with the spoon.
Silence is a true friend who never betrays.
There was an old man who supposed
that the street door was partially closed;
but some very large rats ate his coat and his hats, that futile old gentleman dozed.
Bigotry is the sacred disease.
The fox knows many things but the hedgehog only knows one big thing.
What we achieve inwardly will change outer reality.
There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.
The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.
Beware the wolf in sheep's clothing.
There is no easy way from the earth to the stars.
There are no rules of architecture for a castle in the clouds.
Familiarity breeds contempt. breeds contempt.
Fortune favors the bold. favors the bold.
No one is free who is not master of himself.
Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius.
The sun, too, shines into cesspools and is not polluted.
The mob is the mother of tyrants.
A dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.
Nero fiddled while Rome burned.
Before you embark on a journey of revenge, dig two graves.
Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Parting is such sweet sorrow,
That I shall say good night till it be morrow.
Of all that is written, I love only what a person has written with his own blood.
Misfortune seldom intrudes upon the wise man; his greatest and highest interests are directed by reason throughout the course of life.
There was an old man who supposed
that the street door was partially closed;
but some very large rats ate his coat and his hats,
while that futile old gentleman dozed.
Written laws are like spiders' webs, and will, like them, only entangle and hold the poor and weak, while the rich and powerful will easily break through them.
A dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.
He who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god.
We choose our joys and sorrows long before we experience them.
He doth bestride the narrow world
Like a Colossus; and we petty men
Walk under his huge legs, and peep about
To find ourselves dishonourable graves.
Death is a release from the impressions of the senses, and from desires that make us their puppets, and from the vagaries of the mind, and from the hard service of the flesh.
What we wish, we readily believe, and what we ourselves think, we imagine others think also.
This feeling of wonder shows that you are a philosopher, since wonder is the only beginning of philosophy.
We do not learn and that which we call learning is only a process of remembering.
The punishment which the wise suffer who refuse to take part in the government, is to live under the government of worse men.
Poets utter great and wise things which they do not themselves understand.
The eyes of the soul of the multitudes are unable to endure the vision of the divine.- noun
The mind is its own place, and in itself
Can make a Heaven of Hell, a Hell of Heaven.
Whoever fights monsters should see to it that in the process he does not become a monster. And if you gaze long enough into an abyss, the abyss will gaze back into you.
Hope, in reality, is the worst of all evils because it prolongs the torments of man.
A great value of antiquity lies in the fact that its writings are the only ones that modern men still read with exactness.
A subject for a great poet would be God's boredom after the seventh day of creation.
The best revenge is to be unlike him who performed the injury.
I have often wondered how it is that every man loves himself more than all the rest of men, but yet sets less value on his own opinions of himself than on the opinions of others.
It is a truth universally acknowledged that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.
The Romans' idea of what is exquisite is
mysteriously identical to ours.
There will be no end to the troubles of states, or of humanity itself, until philosophers become kings in this world, or until those we now call kings and rulers really and truly become philosophers, and political power and philosophy thus come into the same hands.
Posterity has a brisk way with manuscripts: scholarship is a small redress against the vast unreason of what is taken from us...
Taste is not knowledge. A scholar's business is to add to what is known. That is all. But it is capable of giving the very greatest satisfaction, because knowledge is good. It does not have to look good or sound good or even do good. It is good just by being knowledge. And the only thing that makes it knowledge is that it is true. You can't have too much of it and there is no little too little to be worth having. There is truth and falsehood in a comma.
The Germans, in the age of Tacitus, were unacquainted with the use of letters; and the use of letters is the principal circumstance that distinguishes a civilized people from a herd of savages incapable of knowledge or reflection. Without that artificial help, the human memory soon dissipates or corrupts the ideas entrusted to her charge; and the nobler faculties of the mind, no longer supplied with models or with materials, gradually forget their powers; the judgment becomes feeble and lethargic, the imagination languid or irregular.
What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god! the beauty of the world, the paragon of animals-and yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust?